{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12780\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'95
\f2\b Conversation Summary \'97 Paper 3: PINN for Cloud Droplet Profile Retrieval
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Context
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 You're finalizing your dissertation (defense target: June 2026) at LASP/CU Boulder. Papers 1 and 2 used optimal estimation (Gauss-Newton) to retrieve vertical profiles of cloud droplet effective radius from MODIS multispectral reflectances, validated against VOCALS-REx in situ data. Paper 3 will tackle the same problem using physics-informed neural networks.
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Key Problems from Papers 1 & 2 That Motivate Paper 3
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Non-unique solutions:
\f4\b0  Many droplet profiles produce reflectances within MODIS uncertainty (Figs. 8-9 of Paper 1). The Gauss-Newton solver finds local minima.
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Weak cloud base sensitivity:
\f4\b0  Weighting functions at all SWIR wavelengths peak near cloud top; only ~8% of signal at 2.13 \uc0\u956 m comes from the lowest quartile.
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Hard constraints required:
\f4\b0  Without enforcing r_bot < r_top, the solver converges to physically unrealistic states.
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Only 2 vertical levels retrieved:
\f4\b0  The state vector was x = (r_top, r_bot, \uc0\u964 _c) with the full profile assumed adiabatic via Eq. 4.
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Agreed-Upon Approach: Hybrid Two-Stage Strategy
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Stage 1 \'97 Direct Retrieval Network (build first, sufficient for a strong paper):
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Train a supervised neural network on ~500k libRadtran simulations
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Input: reflectances R(\uc0\u955 ) + geometry (SZA, VZA, \u966 , wind speed)
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Output: r_e at N=10 vertical levels + \uc0\u964 _c, as 
\f2\b separate named outputs
\f4\b0  (not a raw vector)
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Add physics-based penalties to the loss: monotonicity (replaces r_bot < r_top), adiabatic shape (soft version of Eq. 4), smoothness
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Loss = L_supervised + \uc0\u955 \u8321 \'b7L_monotonicity + \u955 \u8322 \'b7L_adiabatic + \u955 \u8323 \'b7L_smoothness
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Stage 2 \'97 Add Forward Model Emulator (if time permits, ~1-2 weeks extra):
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Train a separate NN to emulate libRadtran: (profile, \uc0\u964 _c, geometry) \u8594  predicted R(\u955 )
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Freeze emulator, plug into training loop as an additional loss term: L_data = ||\uc0\u82 \u770 (\u955 ) - R_observed(\u955 )||\'b2
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 The retrieval network from Stage 1 is 
\f2\b reused unchanged
\f4\b0  \'97 the emulator is an add-on
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 This makes it a true PINN because the forward model (radiative transfer) is embedded in the training loop
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Key Design Decision: Output Structure
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 The retrieval network's forward method returns a dictionary with keys 'profile', 'tau_c', 'profile_normalized', 'tau_normalized'. This clean separation enables the Stage 2 emulator to be connected directly to the retrieval network output without any restructuring.
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Project Files Created
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 All saved to /lasp-CU-paper-3/:
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b src/models.py
\f4\b0  \'97 DropletProfileNetwork (Stage 1), ForwardModelEmulator (Stage 2), all loss functions (SupervisedLoss, PhysicsLoss, CombinedLoss, EmulatorDataLoss), config dataclasses
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b src/data.py
\f4\b0  \'97 LibRadtranDataset (HDF5 PyTorch Dataset), create_dataloaders, adiabatic_profile (your Eq. 4), generate_random_profiles, placeholder for VOCALS-REx loading
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b train.py
\f4\b0  \'97 SLURM-submittable training script with early stopping, checkpointing, YAML config
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b configs/stage1_modis.yaml
\f4\b0  \'97 Training hyperparameters
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b scripts/train_alpine.sh
\f4\b0  \'97 SLURM script for Alpine (A100 GPU partition)
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b notebooks/01_data_preparation.ipynb
\f4\b0  \'97 Generate training data, save to HDF5 (has synthetic placeholder; needs real libRadtran integration)
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b notebooks/02_training_experimentation.ipynb
\f4\b0  \'97 Interactive training, loss curves, profile visualization, checkpoint loading from Alpine
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b notebooks/03_vocals_validation.ipynb
\f4\b0  \'97 VOCALS-REx comparison framework with placeholder data for your 3 cases (Fig. 3a-c), publication figure templates, ensemble uncertainty estimation
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b PowerPoint Slides Created
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 10-slide deck (pinn_advisor_slides.pptx) for your biweekly advisor meeting explaining the approach to someone unfamiliar with ML. Covers: the problem, what a NN is, direct retrieval diagram, what makes it physics-informed, PINN architecture, 2-levels-to-N-levels comparison, hybrid strategy, timeline, and summary.
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Key Technical Details
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Framework: 
\f2\b PyTorch
\f4\b0  (not MATLAB) \'97 needed for autograd through the emulator in Stage 2
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Architecture: MLP with 4\'d7256 hidden layers, GELU activation, LayerNorm, dropout=0.1
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Output activation: Sigmoid scaled to physical bounds [1, 25] \uc0\u956 m for r_e and [3, 30] for \u964 _c
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Jupyter notebooks for development, train.py for Alpine SLURM runs, checkpoints transferred between the two
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 num_workers=0 in Jupyter DataLoaders to avoid multiprocessing issues
\f3\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f2\b Next Step
\f3\b0\fs24 \

\f1\fs18\fsmilli9333 \'95
\f4 Get Notebook 01 working with 
\f2\b real libRadtran data
\f4\b0  on Alpine. Once you have an HDF5 file with actual reflectance spectra, everything downstream flows from it.
\f3\fs24 \
}